well thanks for watching I thought
tonight what I do is just give you a
demonstration of up around the table and
how I put it together cut and shut it
and then a little bit of a talk about
how to do the finger joint okay
keep this for posterity okay so here's
our finger joining table and what I've
done is I've inserted the four blocks
that I'm going to use for the box and
those four blocks are in two sets of two
I'm using a half inch router bit and
I've got it set up so that the jig
taking a bit closer is set up in the
position as you can see the two sets of
two offset to each other now the secret
of this is to get the two half inch cuts
that your out is going to make
completely in place so that they're
exactly the same across the full board
so as you can see just looking straight
down you've got two boards set which
will be board one and two and in the
back two boards and they're half an inch
or 12.5 mill apart so now what I've done
is I've set up the jig so that your half
inch section is dead in line with the
bottom carrier that you're going to use
to guide once you make your cut you'll
also notice that notice of this level
that I've got the router bit set above
the table at exactly or a little bit
more than just the depth of one piece of
the item you're cutting now the trick to
this next part is once you
cut through the floorboards right across
each one of the country making across
the board themselves you then turn them
upside down and friend at the same time
you also turn the chip upside down live
master cheek won back the jig to you
notice on the jig that we've got a 12.5
on one side and on the other side isn't
for a 10 mil bit so you must ensure that
you use this part of the jig for the
same cut I'm going to 12 and 5 mil round
bit in place so you turn it up slow down
so it's exactly opposite place back down
on your cheek table on your round table
and you turn it to pieces upside down
and of course you're going to have to
shift them crosswise so that in sitting
this way you'll see that this pile is
12.5 that way when you turn it up the
other way
you've got to then unclamp it and bring
this back 12.5 this way so you'll have
two sections aside on both sides and
that'll be a proper back and in front
the back so that's how it sits together
now I just thought I'd show you this is
our dog but she can't help me because
she's deaf
now this is just a bottom view of how
the router sits within the table as you
can see I've cut the slots out here so
the router will sit down inside and I've
also cut it back so that it still
supports the router table but it still
lets me slide the finger guide backwards
and forwards within the slots
now I thought long and hard about what I
do a brother
Triton workbench and it's got a small
set up in and I'm forever going
backwards and forwards I vote top to sit
the round read so all I did was just
used one see fairly inexpensive tables
from banks cut the top out of the two
boards that are the supports on the top
to fit my router in so I can drop it in
and out and then also a become one of
the boards to help the fingers on the
slide it's as simple as that about 30
bucks and now I've got myself a new
router table as well so all well and
good or couple ease up I'll show you how
a 50